A good coach has to win. Just because there’s more to it doesn’t mean that success isn’t important. Bobby Smyrniotis is no stranger to successful coaching, but there are pundits aplenty who have already explained his prowess.<br><br>
Good coaches have to be ambassadors. A team needs a connection with its city, its fans, and its community. Every player needs to feel like they’ve got a home where they play, no matter how new they are to the team. On top of that, there are the cameras. Unless a player is a one-in-a-million superstar, the coach is going to be the face of the team. They may not like it, but they have to know, respect, and use that power. Rob Gale has brought the world to Winnipeg, and his players know that he’s trusting them to bring Winnipeg to the world. <br><br>
A good coach has to be a builder. Plans need to be set into motion which may take years to develop. Players may need years of development before they realize their full potential. A team’s fame will outlast any coach, and a good coach doesn’t just accept that, but ensures it. When Jeff Paulus said it was time for new blood, he wasn’t just talking about eight weeks at the Island Games, he was talking about the last ten years he’d spent with FC Edmonton, and its academy, and all the Edmonton players he’d worked with, and his fierce support of them. In the end, he saw that something else he could do to build the team was to step aside, and there might be nothing a coach can do for his team which is more selfless.<br><br>
A good coach has to be a learner. Being a good coach in any one of these categories doesn’t excuse failure in any of them. Indeed, it only increases the certainty that failure will arrive, in numbers and methods a lesser coach might never predict. In one way, Stephen Hart was less experienced than his fellow coaches: for all his national experience, he hadn’t been involved in league play for a long time. He had to start from scratch with everyone else, but he had to unlearn his assumptions, navigate all the failures of 2019, make hard decisions, remake his plans, and then start from scratch all over again.
<br><br>And this time, it worked.  If you asked a coach, “would you rather keep winning, or keep learning?”, it’s doubtful many would choose to stop learning. But, of course, that’s a meaningless distinction: because there are so many ways to fail, there are just as many ways to keep learning. Not only are all the coaches of the league the best in their own way, they’re all improving in their own way as well. To coach is to be a student of the game, always.
